[Music]
i want to find out
what effect alcohol has on my immune
system
and to do that i'm going to get drunk
before i came out tonight i had a blood
sample taken
we'll compare it with a sample i'll give
tomorrow to see how my immune system
fares after a night on the booze
i'm joined by immunologist professor
yaeu
of the university of birmingham good
evening professor yay how are you doing
cheers first up a bit of good news
a small amount of alcohol is unlikely to
do much harm to our immune system
everything is good in moderation
a glass of red wine with a friends and
family i think that will probably
improve the circulation but what effect
does a lot of drink have on our immune
system
i'm not gonna lie i'm already feeling a
little bit merry
let's continue binging in the uk
a binge is defined as six units or more
in one session
that's about four glasses of prosecco
but alcohol tolerance varies from person
to person
and i'm a total lightweight even the two
or three glasses is significant amount
to you
so yeah i'm feeling it yeah so let's see
what the changes of the immune cell
after the alcohol yeah
that'll be quite interesting cheers
professor
thank you
oh gosh they did go down didn't they
the drink has substantially decreased my
numbers of lymphocytes
the specialist cells that help my body
identify and fight the most troublesome
infections cd8 t cells so
before getting drunk i was at 6.28 and
then after
i was 4.80 yikes
this is literally less than 12 hours
after
i mean there is a definite decline after
the binge drinking
most drops were in the region of 20 to
30 percent
but some of my lymphocyte t cells have
dropped by as much as half
which means that if something nasty so
for example if i got on the tube and
someone sneezed on me
i could i'm more susceptible in general
we could say that you're more prone to
have an
infection yeah as a light drinker
it might be that less booze is required
to suppress my immune cells than for
some
but the evidence is clear drink too much
alcohol
and your immune system suffers
seeing it in whole like percentage
numbers like that oh it makes me shiver
a little
the good news is immune cell numbers do
recover
in time so if we take regular breaks
from drinking alcohol
it gives our immune cells a chance to
bounce back